By Faiyaz Ahmad Chowdhury


The Sloth, the Fox, and the Dog

The Sloth, the Fox, and the Dog were friends. One day, they discovered a cave and they all entered. After some walking they arrived at the end and happened upon a tall tree with 4 berries on the ground next to it. They each ate one berry and it was absolutely delicious! Then a bird appeared from the tree and ate the remaining berry.

They then noticed that the end of the cave had 2 more cave openings. Hoping to find more, the Fox and the Dog went into their separate openings hoping to find more berries, but the Sloth remained to eat the berries that would fall from the current tree.

After more walking both the Fox and the Dog noticed more cave openings within the paths they chose. They both started making a map as they explored. In their exploration, they both found many trees. Some trees had many berries on the ground, some had a few. The Fox started counting the berries and marking the the number of berries found on the map. The Dog after having explored his side of the cave, marked the path to the cave that had the most berries.

The Fox and the Dog then went to the tree with the most berries on their side and ate them. They returned to the first tree with the Sloth. They told the Sloth there are more berries, but the Sloth did not care.

The next day, they returned to the cave. The Fox went to its side of the cave and went to the tree with the most berries. While eating the berries, the Fox counted them and noticed that there were less berries than what he had marked on the map and became upset. The Dog looked at his map and followed the path to the tree with the most berries and ate them and was very happy. They then returned to the first tree. The Fox told the Dog that he was frustrated because there were less berries this time. The Dog could not remember if he ate more berries than last time; he was just happy that he had a path to show him where to get the most berries.















The Horse, the Sun, and the Moon

The Horse enjoyed being in the Sun. It loved the light and the warmth that the Sun gave, and that the trees and grass gave more air when the Sun was out. When the Sun set, the Horse became sad. The Horse doesn’t sleep much so its nights were long, dark and cold. It could not see or do much.

One day, the Horse began to chase the Sun so that day never ends. With the everlasting sunlight, the Horse could play, breathe the freshest air, and always feel the Sun’s warmth and see its light.

However, over time the Horse noticed that there were somethings that it did not like. The Horse found it difficult to nap during the day. It noticed that it had little time for itself because all other animals were awake during the day. The day was noisy and congested. Overtime, the Horse got annoyed and started hating the Sun.

Then the Horse stopped chasing the Sun, and then began chasing the Moon. The night was quiet. The Horse immersed itself in peace and solitude, but overtime, the cold and darkness began to bother the Horse.

The Horse then stopped chasing altogether. The Horse enjoyed the warmth, air and light of the Sun, and the peace and solitude of the Moon.






















The Fox and the Pride of Lions

The Fox became close friends with a pride of Lions. It began to hunt, eat and sleep with them as if they were all family. However, being smaller and weaker than the rest of the Lions, the Fox was not always able to catch the animals it hunted with the Lions.

The Fox grew very hungry a few times and asked the Lions for meat, but the Lions were big and needed more food than the Fox. They refused to share and told the Fox that it didn’t need much food. The Fox knew this was true, and dealt with its hunger.

One day the Fox was extremely hungry and the Lions again refused the share their food. The Fox noticed one of the Lions had a lot of food, and then stole the food. The Fox enjoyed its meal, but then all the Lions roared and banished the Fox.

Separated from the Pride of Lions, the Fox began hunting smaller animals like it was used to. It was happy because it wasn’t hungry as often, but it did feel lonely. One day the Fox got lucky and got a lot of food from hunting. It saw that another Lion was unable to hunt any food for itself and the Fox came and shared its food with the Lion.

The Lion was shocked that the Fox that shared the food was the same Fox that stole their food. The Lion gratefully ate the food that the Fox shared. The Fox gave more to the Lion than itself.

The Lion was happy and roared to the rest of the Lions telling them how the Fox helped them. The Lions welcomed the Fox and made sure that the Fox was well-fed. When the Fox could not find food with the Lions, it hunted smaller animals alone. It grew hungry less often, but whenever the Fox was very hungry after its hunt, the Lions would share what they had to the Fox.
















The Dog, the Baker and the Reasons of Ravens

The Dog was loved by all, especially the Baker. The Baker one day baked a big loaf of brown bread for the Dog and the Dog took it home. Then a Reason of 10 Ravens appeared and asked if they could eat it. The Dog let them eat it and then went back to the Baker everyday, who would then bake the Dog more bread.

Later a separate Reason of 20 Ravens appeared and asked if they could eat it with the 10 Ravens. The Dog let them. The Reason of 20 Ravens asked if the Dog could get sourdough bread instead. The Dog went to the Baker everyday and asked the Baker for sourdough bread. The Baker was more than happy to help the dog, and baked sourdough bread everyday.

After some time, a Reason of 15 more Ravens appeared and asked the Dog if they could eat with the other Reasons. The Dog let them also join. This Reason of Ravens wanted brown bread, and the original 10 agreed. The Dog then asked the Baker to bake brown bread again, and the Baker was confused but did as the Dog pleased.

Sometimes the Reason of Ravens that liked Sourdough were more, and sometimes the Reason of Ravens that liked brown bread were more, and the Dog asked the bread accordingly. But the Baker could not understand why the Dog kept changing its mind but thought it better not to ask.























The Dark and the Bright Firefly

The fireflies would always play at night. Sometimes, however, it became so dark that the fireflies sometimes unexpectedly crashed into each other. They would then get upset and get into an argument.

Most of the fireflies disliked the Dark Firefly the most. The other fireflies could barely see where he was going so they would crash into him all the time. Over time, the Dark Firefly had come to understand that none of the fireflies liked to play with him, so he stopped playing altogether.

However, all the fireflies loved to play with the new Firefly. She was a Bright Firefly. She was so bright, that even in the darkest of nights, all the fireflies could see her. None of the fireflies ever crashed with her, and they always wanted to play when she was playing.

One day, the Bright Firefly noticed the Dark Firefly was not playing. The Bright Firefly stopped playing and asked the Dark Firefly to join them. The Dark Firefly declined and explained that they all hated him because they could not see him. Heartbroken, the Bright Firefly said they could play with only with each other, and she didn’t mind if they crashed with each other.

The Bright Firefly and the Dark Firefly then played tag every night. But no matter how much they played, they never crashed. The Dark Firefly, confused, asked the Bright Firefly, “How can you see me? How come we never crash?” The Bright Firefly answered, “You look just as bright as everyone else to me.” Shocked the Dark Firefly looked at himself and saw that he could see himself. The light from the Bright Firefly was so bright, that it bounced off the Dark Firefly and made the Dark Firefly look bright.

The Bright Firefly asked if the Dark Firefly could play with them, but they rejected. The Bright Firefly said she would not play with them if they did not let the Dark Firefly play as well. The fireflies then changed their mind and let both fireflies play. The Dark Firefly was very happy. None of the other fireflies crashed with him because the light of the Bright Firefly was so bright. The other fireflies began to start liking the Dark Firefly. As the Dark Firefly became happier and happier, he got brighter and brighter, and as he got brighter and brighter, the other fireflies liked playing with him more and more. Soon enough, he was as bright as all the other fireflies.










The Traveller and the Three Farmers

A Traveller happened upon three identical farms that were right next to each other, each filled with a wide variety of fruits and vegetables. The Traveller inquired the owners and learned that they were brothers who had just inherited their lands from their prolific father. Aware that the farms were just big enough only to sustain a single person, the Traveller did not stay for long and continued with his travels.

Years later the Traveller came across the same land. However, this time he saw a big farm, a farm that looked exactly the same as he had seen it years ago, and an enormous farm much bigger than both the other farms combined. Curious, he went to visit the big farm first.

The Traveller noticed that the owner had a wife and a child now. The owner said that he had worked very hard to grow his farm. He had earned enough to sell the extra produce and provide for his wife and child, but the farm is so large that he has to work very hard just to maintain it. When the Traveller asked him why he worked so hard, the owner answered, “I want to be the most successful and the most happy I can be.”

The Traveller then went to the farm that had not changed. The Traveller saw that the owner still lived alone. The Traveller asked why he continued to live the same life, to which the owner replied, “I enjoy eating, and the farm provides enough food for me.”

Finally, the Traveller went to the largest farm. He saw that the owner had started a large family, and the children often helped in the farm, but the owner did a tremendous amount of work day to day. The owner said they had plenty of food and urged the Traveller to stay and eat with them. The Traveller asked the owner why he worked so hard, to which he replied, “I love farming.”

















The Bird and the Meadow

There was once Bird, flying through the sky. She loved flying, more than anything else. One day, while Bird was flying with her family, a storm had begun. The storm was too powerful and large to escape, and they were trying to evade the hard winds, the winds threw pebbles and branches at them. Bird and her family were hit and unable to fly, were flung to the ground.

When the storm was finally over, the birds were hurt and could not fly. There was too much pain to go fly. The storm pushed them to a meadow, where many worms were dug up from the storm, and the Bird and her family could eat a lot of worms. It was very nice. They did not have to hunt for food. There was so much to eat where the storm had taken them.

Once Bird had fully recovered, it started to fly again. It was soaring in the sky, but when she felt a strong wind, it got scared and did not evade the wind. The wind flung Bird to the ground near the meadow. Bird was once again hurt. Bird was again to injured to fly.

Bird ate the worms and lived happily with family, and slept and enjoyed life. Once Bird was healed, she got ready to fly again, but as she saw a strong wind, she got scared. She decided to stay in the Meadow and stay with her family where it was nice.

After a long time, Bird missed flying. She wanted to fly again, but her family said no. They said she would get hurt and that it was nice and safe there. But Bird was restless. One day, she told her family she must fly and flew to the sky. There was a strong wind. Bird was scared, but maneuvered the wind. Bird was happy. Bird would fly most of the day, and came back down to rest, eat and see her family. Seeing Bird, other brothers and sisters of Bird flew too, but some remained.

One day, Bird wanted to go on a trip and fly far away. When Bird came back the next day, she saw only some of her brothers and sisters. They said that Cats came and tried to eat them. Her family had tried to fly away, but some were too heavy to fly, or were scared and were knocked back by the wind. The wind pushed them back to the ground. Bird and her remaining brothers and sisters mourned and then flew away.











The Moles and the Hole

There was once a family of Moles that were looking for a home. They found a big cave and they were lived there. One of the Moles said there was a deep hole that was too dangerous, but the rest of the Moles said not to worry about it.

One day, two of the young moles fell into the Hole while playing. The family were calling into the Hole, but heard nothing. "The Hole was bottomless.” they said. Sad, the Moles wept, but said this was still safer than outside the cave. One of the Moles kept looking into the Hole. The other Moles told him not to.

They were safe, but sometimes, few young moles fell into the Hole. After a long time, the Mole looking into the Hole saw a sparkle in the bottom. “Look!” he yelled! “The Hole is not bottomless!” Some of the moles, seeing that the Hole were not bottomless, went outside of the cave and brought leaves and branches. They claimed to the bottom of the deep Hole and put the branches and leaves on the ground to soften the bottom of the Hole, so that if anyone fell there, they would fall on the leaves and be safe.

This was taking a long time, and some of the moles were scared their children would fall in before the hole was done, and dug out dirt and threw dirt and water from wells into the Hole to fill it up. This took much less time, but this buried and drowned the moles that were already at the bottom putting leaves and branches. When the holes was full. The remaining moles felt safe.

The next day, one of the young moles fell into Hole. How? Cried the mother, we filled that Hole. But then they looked and saw that from the dirt and water they took out from the ground and the well to fill the big hole, they made many other deep holes and their babies could fall into them.

















The Tribe and the Strange Village

Once there was an old traveling tribe that saw a big village that appeared empty. It was one unlike anything they saw. One of the tribesman was excited and said he wanted to go scout the village. After some hours, he came back and said, “There weren’t many people. I only saw one person. I looked at him and he smiled at me. I think he was very nice. I think everyone there is probably nice, we should go meet them.” 

The next day, one other tribesman said, “I think it is still too dangerous for all of us to go down. Let me go alone.” and went to the big village. After some time, he came back and said, “It was very empty, but I saw someone, and he was very angry. I think he is bad. We shouldn’t go. They are dangerous.”

The two tribesman started arguing that the other was wrong. Then a third tribesman said, “I am sad. You guys are fighting. You are my friends. Stop fighting. I will go.” After sometime, he came back and said, “It was very empty, but I saw a very sad man. I looked at him and I could feel his pain.”

The next day a child from the tribe snuck into the village. After some time, he came back. His tribe was very worried. The child said, “It’s okay, I didn’t see many people. But I saw another kid. We waved at each other. I made a friend there!” But it was getting late so I ran back.

The next day, the mother of the child, curious, went to the village. She came back saying, “I didn’t see anyone accept a beautiful woman. But I was nervous and I ran away.”

Another tribesman, eager to see the beautiful woman, when to the village the next day, but came back looking disappointed. He said, “I didn’t see anyone there except a tall, strong, but ugly looking man.”

The tribe was aware then there were many people in the village. A nice man, an angry man, a very sad man, a child, a beautiful woman, and a tall ugly man. They looked around and suddenly got shivers. They knew there was something strange about that place and decided they should stay away. But sometimes, the jolly man would sneak out to smile at the man he saw, and the child would go down to wave at the child he saw, and the man who saw the sad person would go down and just stand in front of the man he saw, to give him company, showing him that he understood how he felt. Sometime, the lustful man would go, always to come back disappointed unable to see the beautiful woman, and only see ugly men.

The distrustful man always stayed away, knowing that they were all wrong. The village was bad, like the angry man he saw. The woman also stayed away, jealous of the woman she saw with all her beauty.


The Oracle and the Sky

There was once an wise man who lived within the mountains. Often traveling to gain wisdom far and wide. When he returned, his fellow people would ask him what he had learnt and always asked for his advice and what they should do. Over the years, the he would grow old, and lost all his teeth and could no longer speak. He then lived alone in the mountain. They called him the Oracle.

There was a long drought in the village, and people were suffering. They cared for the old Oracle, and asked a young boy to go up and bring food to him regularly. One day, there was a great rain, that revived the crops. The boy came running back from the mountain once the rain was gone, saying they saw something amazing in the sky in the mountain. Something he had not seen before. The villagers wanted to know what it was. Maybe it was a signal for what they should do to get rain. 

One villager walked to the mountain, and asked the Oracle what he saw, but the Oracle could not speak. “Was it red?” The man asked. The Oracle nodded. In their village, they knew red meant love. He went to the village and gave charity to the poor, and helped in the community center.

The same day at a different time, another villager went to visit the Oracle. He asked the Oracle, “Was it green?” The Oracle nodded. The villager when back down, and worked very hard at the farm, because green meant hard work and nature.

The next day different villager went up to the Oracle and asked, “Was it Yellow?” The Oracle nodded. The villager went down and began singing and dancing and praising life, because that was what yellow meant in their culture. He brought cheer to the people.

The next day a different villager went up to the Oracle and asked, “Did it have blue?” The oracle nodded, but this time, the Oracle had a wide grin on his face as he was nodding. Satisfied, the villager turned around to go back to the village, but before he left, he thought for a second. He turned around and asked, “Did it have red?” The Oracle nodded. “Did it have green?” Again, the Oracle nodded. “Did it have yellow?” Again the Oracle nodded.

“Did it have black?” The Oracle suddenly changed expression and shook his head. The villager let out a relieved sigh. The villager walked back down, happy knowing that they were all doing what they were supposed to. That they were all right.







The Giant

There was a giant that lived alone in the mountain. He had a giant dog that he let roam outside because it loved playing outside. One day a man curiously went to the Giant’s house. The Giant saw the man, and as he went to greet the man, the man ran away terrified. However, the running caught the giant dog’s attention and the dog ate the man.

The Giant was upset, but he loved the dog too. He kept the dog. A season later, a different man came in, curious. The Giant said, “Don’t run outside right now. My dog is dangerous.” The man, distrusting the Giant, ran out. As the Giant ran to catch him to save him, the man ran away even faster and got eaten by the dog.

After some time, another man came in, looking for the first two. He looked at the Giant and said, “You must have killed my friends.” I will avenge them. He attacked the Giant. The Giant did not want to hurt the man, and ran out of his house, but the man ran to chase him, and the Giant dog ate the man.

After some time, another man came to see where his friends were. He saw the Giant and said, “Please do not kill me or my friends. I will do everything you want me to. I will be your slave.” The Giant cried. The Giant said, “Do not worry. I will not hurt you.” Blinded by fear, the man did not listen and repeated, “I will be your slave.” Feeling guilty, the Giant left the house and took his dog with him and made a new home elsewhere.

After some time, a man walked in and saw the Giant. The Giant just sat there. The man also stood there, terrified, but curious and in awe. After some time the man stepped closer. Then he Stepped even closer, until he was next to the Giant and asked if they could be friends. The Giant was filled with joy. He had made friend.